# wordle-solver
A simple wordle solver I made for fun. It can solve wordles either by calculating the solution for any word (which runs pretty slowly), or by using a pre-generated decision tree (which runs almost instantly).

Average moves to solve: 3.61

## How To Use
First, clone the repository by running:

`git clone git@github.com:gthompson30/wordle-solver.git`

To use the Wordle solver, run the command `python treesolver.py` from the root directory. A tutorial will be printed, explaining how to use the solver.

## File Tree
```
.
├── data
<<<<<<< HEAD
│   ├── allowed.txt
│   ├── answers.txt
│   └── tree.json
├── treemaker.py
├── treesolver.py
├── unused
│   ├── log.txt
│   └── tree.txt
=======
│   ├── allowed.txt
│   ├── answers.txt
│   └── tree.json
├── treemaker.py
├── treesolver.py
├── unused
│   ├── log.txt
│   └── tree.txt
>>>>>>> 28d575f594713853a9e20d216a6251c9acf6a747
├── wordle.py
└── wordletester.py
```

## Purpose of each file

### Main directory
* **treesolver.py**: Solves any Wordle using the decision tree in `data/tree.json` (runs quickly).
* **wordle.py**: Solves any Wordle by calculating the optimal solution, on the fly (runs slowly).
* **treemaker.py**: Generates the `data/tree.json` decision tree, based on the file `data/tree.txt`.
* **wordlesolver.py**: Calculates every possible Wordle solution, and prints out the solution. This was what I pasted into `data/tree.txt`.

### data/
* **allowed.txt**: Contains every accepted Wordle word, not including potential answers. [source](https://gist.github.com/cfreshman/cdcdf777450c5b5301e439061d29694c)
* **answers.txt**: Contains every potential Wordle answer. [source](https://gist.github.com/cfreshman/a03ef2cba789d8cf00c08f767e0fad7b)
* **tree.json**: Contains the decision tree, represented in JSON format. Generated by `~/treemaker.py`.
* **tree.txt**: Contains how the bot solved each of the 2,315 potential answers. This was used to generate `tree.json`.

### unused/
* **log.txt**: A log resulting from me testing how long each potential answer took to solve.
